>> Lucas: So when I did my first
Angular GS workshop I did a variation of
this graphic because, if you can believe
it, Angular GS was super confusing.
And so I just scaled it down to this
graphic of like here's the big picture.
It's only eight pieces.
This is what you have to know,
eight pieces,
which at the time was only eight pieces.
This is way easier than I thought, but
fortunately for
us that it's gotten even simpler.
That there is really four
main pieces in angular.
There are some kind of little edge cases
here but for the most of your work,
I would say 90% of the time you
would do this 100% of the time.
It's your modules, your routes,
components, and services, four pieces.
And today we're really gonna
focus on the component.
But we'll also touch on routes and
services.
>> Lucas: So let's talk about the module.
>> Lucas: So
this is a slightly overloaded term.
Because Angular provides module
support at the language level and
the framework level.
So this happened in RC5 that
they introduced module.
And this is so
we could do ahead of time compilation and
lazy loading some different things.
But first and
foremost that we use ES6 module
to provide organization
at a language level.
So all this really does is it creates
a container that says I need these things
and I'm making available this
thing to the rest of the world.
So pretty simple, we are exporting
Items Component but,
we're also importing these pieces here.
So I just think of it as a box that says,
this thing is going out, but
I also need these things to work.
>> Lucas: Now, Angular uses @NgModule to
provide organization at a framework level.
And so at a language level,
we use that to compile our application in
a way that makes sense, but
we use NgModule to tell angular itself,
this is how this
application fits together.
So this allows us to
communicate certain things,
such as what view classes are we using.
What other modules do we need?
Do we have additional services, so
providers just think this is services?
And if it's a top-level module,
what is the entry point.
And so bootstrap will tell it
start with this module and
bootstrap your application and so
here is a pretty standard NgModules.
So first and foremost we're
saying here's our components or
something that's going to show up in
the View so our view declarations.
Our imports, so these are submodules.
At this moment have an ItemsService.
And we're going to bootstrap
with the AppComponent.
And so
this is just a manifest if you will,
that's saying this is how this
Angular app is going to be
put together, but, it's just really,
I would say a map or a manifest saying
this is how this thing is organized.
Now one other thing to
point out is that before
you actually bootstrap to a component,
but now you bootstrap to a module.
So we're saying over here
bootstrapModule(AppModule) and
then from there when
AppModule gets bootstrapped.
Then, it'll look and say okay, well,
what component do we start at?
And that's where over here,
we're saying start with the app component.
One other thing worth pointing out
is you'll notice that we're using
platform browser dynamic to
bootstrap the application.
Well, angular being a platform.
You can target a lot of different
build destinations if you will.
So for instance, it can be electron.
It can be server side.
It can be with web workers.
Ahead of time compilation.
There's a bunch of different ways to
actually compile the application.
This is the most basic one in other
words just run it in the browser and
run as a dynamic web application.
But we have the ability to control
how the application is even span up,
which is really really interesting.
So if modules are kind
of the big container.
So think of that as if somebody
asked Mark Mark, where do you live?
He might say, well,
I live in the Twin Cities.
And so that might be a module, so
it's a very large container that
houses a single cohesive thing.
But within that we have major highways,
and this is where routes come in.
This is pretty much just a way
to navigate to a specific
component within your application.
So generally what in it's simplest form,
it just contains a path,
reference and a component reference.
And then in the URL, when there is
a match, then Angular would say,
okay, here's the path, we've matched
it up Let's take this component and
let's just load it into the router outlet.
And so this is a way to have a single
page that's loading multiple components
into the page, depending on the url.
So you can think of the url as kind of
a serialized state of the applications.
So, for instance, if you're /users, well
you're wanting to see that state or if you
have four slash items or widgets, well you
want to see that state of the application.
Even if you wanted to do route params,
you could be like users forward slash one.
Well then, the router is going to
serialize that and say, we need to
actually see the user with the ID of one
and load and handle that accordingly.
And so it's loaded into
the router outlet component.
And then we navigate using
the rod of interactive.
So this is just a convenient directive
that saves us a lot of typing in terms of,
we don't have to hand build
like our anchor tags.
Router link built to the users.
And just so it knows,
it'll load it up for you.
So just a really handy thing.
Now, one thing worth pointing out is
that Router uses history-pushState.
So you don't have these hash tag
users hash tag, item hash tag widget.
It's that it's used in history-pushState.
And so you have to set a base-ref
tag in your index.html.
So the Angular sail light does this for
you.
Where I've had to modify this is
if I'm running in an electron app.
Then the paradigm of being in a browser,
it shifts a little bit.
As well as I've seen
applications that need to run
on a subdirectory of the root domain.
So it might be something.com/demo and
then you actually have the apps.
So you will need to adjust your base
ref so that it doesn't basically
just wash that out, it ruined kind
of your URL kind of references.
And so here path component,
really simple here.
Path items, component, ItemsComponent.
So it's just simply saying when you
go to for slash path take or for
slash items, that's the path.
Load the ItemsComponent
into the router outlet.
So pretty simple.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: A question about injecting
dependencies like Bootstrap and stuff
to a route or Add an application layer.
So, the bootstrap JavaScript library,
where would you, cuz I'm
assuming we're using it later in the-
>> Lucas: Yeah, so the question is,
would we be using Bootstrap 3 or
4 in the sample application?
The answer is no,
because we are using Angular Material.
The difference is that,
because we're using Angular Material,
we have actual Angular components
that adhere to the standard.
Now there are Bootstrap components, so
there's libraries where they've
actually taken the Bootstrap styling,
the different things, and
wrap those in Angular components.
And you would simply import
that as a submodule.
So let me ask you to pull it up in the app
and I'll show you where that would go.
But if you're just using the CSS, then you
would just actually just put that into
your index.html or you could bundle it.
But that would just be
purely a styling thing.
We're using any material,
because we actually get
fully functional components with it, but-
>> Speaker 2: If you has
JavaScript with it.
>> Lucas: Yeah, it's functioning you know
JavaScript living breathing things that
we're actually finding to our page.
With that said the segues
into kind of a nice sub topic
that I think is interesting.
So, remember I said a module is basically
a container that consumes things and
exports things.
Well, what they've done
with Angular Material
is they want you to be able to
consume these components al a carte.
So if you have a 50 component library and
you need two of them, well,
then it wouldn't make sense,
from a performance standpoint, to have
to import everything, consume it all.
So they let you consume just
the thing that you want.
What I've done is I've created
an app material module.
All this is is just a container
where I import all of the separate
modules that I'm using and then I'm
exporting it into a kind of single place.
And what this allows me to do
is now because I'm exporting,
it's available to ever consumes
this top level rapper module.
Down here, I'm just importing
the app material module.
And because I'm exporting all of these
modules I'm not having to go and
import these one by one over here.
Is I've just created a top level
module that can pull them all in.
And then I'm exporting them
as a single collection.
That I can import here.
So the question is.
If there was a bootstrap library, and
I'm certain there is,
we would import that module.
So it would look something like,
and this is completely sudo code.
With import  from,
>> Lucas: I'm totally making this up, and
so we'd import it.
And so
this is modules at the language level.
So we're simply saying, we need to pull
this in as we compile it altogether and
bundle it, but then we also need to
make this available to the application.
And so you would put it in here and
import it, at which point if this
quasi Bootstrap library that I
just imported if it truly existed,
I would then be able to use that
in the rest of the application.
So the shape is the same,
we're just using a new material.
Routes, we're trying to ask
specific questions instead of like,
does this make sense?
Does anybody have any questions?
Does the shape of, I want to go to
a specific state in the application,
so mapping a url to a component
being loaded into a page.
Does that make sense?
So now, the atomic building
block of Angular is components.
Now the component
under the hood consists of two things,
template and a class.
So a component class and I will try to
refer to it as a component class but
if for some reason, I say controller,
that's my 1.x habits shining through,
surfacing.
I mean the same thing,
because it essentially controls
the component as a whole.
But components, Component Classes.
They're just ES6 classes.
And then properties and
methods Of the component class
are available to the template.
And providers, services, dependencies,
they are injected in the constructor.
So I am a huge fan of
dependency injection.
Because what this allows you to do
is when you have a dependency and
you need to test it,
instead of injecting the real thing
you can simply inject a mock.
And so being able to decouple your
application and then wire it back together
with a pendency injection, I think is
really, really, really, really important.
We use dependency injection in as
parameters into the construction.
So I'll talk about that
a bit more in a moment.
But just know if you have an items
component that needs an items service.
That's going to be a parameter
in the constructor.
Also, especially in JavaScript, in
the browser, that things are asynchronous.
Things happen, components get added to the
stage, they get taken off, things change.
And so, internally, there's this
secret lifecycle of components.
My friend Leo did a really good talk
riffing on the Secret Life of Pets
is that things are happening
whether we know it or not.
We have on a knit.
Something's taking off the stage.
You have on destroy.
The Angular team exposes
those lifecycle hooks.
So that we can tap into them and
do some really powerful things.
Namely, clean up after ourselves as
a component is being taken off the stage.
Huge high-five to them,
because they actually push that
back to Angular 1.5 and up.
So you can actually use component
life cycle hooks in 1.x and
I recommend doing that.
>> Lucas: So this is a component class.
Who here has done C# and/or Java?
>> Lucas: So some of this should look
pretty familiar if you come from
a classical language.
That we have a class and
it's called Item Component.
And we're just implementing an interface.
And so what we're saying is this is
a contract that we have to honor,
which in this case is a life cycle hook,
which is ngOnInit.
So we do not explicitly called the method.
It implicitly gets called for us when the
component has been added to the stage and
its bindings have been satisfied.
And then you can see here,
items, selected item.
Property on our class.
We can now bind to it.
And if we add another method down here,
we could technically call ngOnInit.
I don't recommend it but if we had another
method in here, we could bind to it and
call it from our template.
And they can see here we have
a dependency of item service.
Well, we're injecting it
into the constructor.
So, if for some reason everybody
here forgot how to program.
And I was starting with a blank slate,
just programming in general.
A class is a container,
you have properties and methods.
Like, if I just grossly simplified what I
do every day, is properties and methods.
If you have a property on your class,
you can bind to it.
If you have a method on your class,
you can bind to it as well.
>> Lucas: And so, on the flip side,
if the component class is the brains,
then the template is the beauty.
So maybe Beauty and
the Beast would have been a better joke
had I thought about that a little harder.
Templates, they're just HTML.
And they tell Angular how
to render a component.
Now, if you've done 1.x and
you go to the documentation or
if you've never done 1.x and
you still wanna go to the documentation.
They have all these built
in tags essentially, and
attributes that you can
put into your HTML.
For every event, it's click, submit,
mouse over, swipe left, swipe right.
I mean, it's just on and on and on and on.
Angular, going back to this standards
approach, they decided, look,
we're not gonna create one for
every single DOM event.
Like, we're just going to leverage
the native DOM events and properties.
And so our binding syntax
is expanded slightly, but
now we're just leveraging the DOM to fire
our events, which is really, really nice.
So there's a click event.
You combine to it.
And so, if you go for instance to the MDN,
I haven't tested all of these.
So, there may be these weird edge cases.
But pretty much, if it's a DOM event,
you can just bind to it.
Just pick that event, wrap it in
the syntax, and you can capture.
Pretty awesome.
One other thing, I'm not gonna get really
into this, but what does CSS stand for?
I'm looking at.
>> Speaker 2: Cascading style sheet.
>> Lucas: Yes, and
the problem with CSS is that it cascades.
And that's a real problem, especially if
you've done a general purpose component
that you're passing
around your organization.
You know blood, sweat and
tears into this component and
some savage over in accounting
decides that you know an h one
should be 144 pixels well also
know just blew your component out.
With angular, under the hood,
it leverages shadow DOM.
So by default, it is emulated shadow DOM.
Now CSS is no longer cascading style
sheets, but it's components style sheets.
And so essentially what you're doing
is you're putting a perimeter around
the styling of your component.
And if you've ever had somebody just
trample over a component and he's like
this thing isn't working or you see down
the one your like "What just happened".
This is I would say a hedge around that.
So this is super awesome.
A lot of my designer friends
component developers like they just,
every time they do this, they just
push champagne out on the ground.
It's a really big feature.
>> Lucas: And so
here we are simply saying, so
just under here we still
have our component class.
But on top of it we're saying we just want
to attach this template, this style sheet,
and we're going to use this selector.
Now we're doing this and
calling an external template.
There's another school of thought and I'm
not going to say which one I fall into.
The style guide recommends
using external templates but
react the pretty abolish on
doing your templates in line.
The reason being, and I agree with this,
is that it serves as a canary
in a coal mine if you will.
That if your template is too big,
to comfortably sit inline
within your component.
In other words, you're like,
I'm at line 400.
Like, this is really hard to understand,
it's really messing everything up.
Your component is probably doing too much.
And so this is a way to ensure fine grain
components, is by doing them inline.
Now if I saw external or inline,
it's not going to offend me either way.
The point is your components should
be single purpose, fine grained.
And if your template is 1,200 lines of
markup, you're probably doing too much.
So favor fine grain specific units
of code and functionality over these
monolithic things that are doing, well,
really anything more than one thing.
Start thinking of a way to start
abstracting that out, this is basic.
Software Engineering architecture.
Class just a Java script class,
template is just html.
So, if you know Java script you know
html you're well in you're way.
But, there is an assume back this up,
up to this point.
This really nothing to do
with java are really angular.
And so the question is how do we
make angular aware of these things.
This is where meta data comes in, so
meta data allows angular
to process a class and
turn it or basic insert it into kind
of the angular application life cycle.
We attach metadata with
TypeScript using decorators.
So even this, I believe it's already in
a proposal, is that one of the things
I love about TypeScript is that they're
really pushing JavaScript ahead fast.
But then the things that really work and
they're evolving,
they basic,
submitting that back to become standard.
So decorators are one of these things.
They're just functions, so
you can actual write your own decorators.
And the most common is
the component decorator,
which then takes essentially an object
that has properties that tells Angular
how the component is supposed to work.
So, in this case we have a component.
We're say take this class,
attach this template, this CSS.
And when we attach it to the DOM,
do so using this selector.
So think of a selector as just an HTML tag
that you can then insert into the DOM.
>> Lucas: Now one thing, and
we'll talk about this more tomorrow,
is that even though component
is the most common,
is you can also decorate properties and
methods.
And so, input and
output are kind of two big ones.
So we have a component,
we're saying this is an input property and
it's also going to have
an output event of this.
And so, we'll explain this more.
They're just, so you can see that
sometimes it does indeed exist
inside the class and
this is totally normal.